
# Mentoring and Individual Meetings <a name="individual"></a>

* Individual meetings with Kristin are the best venue for seeking detailed feedback on your projects and giving updates

* It is up to individual group members to schedule these meetings as often as needed. First and second year students are particularly encouraged to schedule regular meetings with Kristin. You should be able to get a meeting as long as you schedule it at least 1 week in advance. If you are having trouble getting a meeting within that timeframe, email Kristin.

* Mentoring in the Persson group goes many directions (Kristin ↔︎ students, staff ↔︎ postdocs, students ↔︎ staff, students ↔︎ students etc.) and you are encouraged to cultivate collaborative and mentoring relationships with colleagues throughout the group. Mentoring and supporting one another is a core part of our responsibilities as group members.

* Mentoring is not hierarchical. More senior colleagues can be valuable sources of feedback and advice, but you are not obligated to listen to them! Ultimate decision making rests with Kristin, other feedback is advisory only.

* **Everyone in the group should feel that they have at least two other group members (in addition to Kristin) they can talk to about their work.** If you do not feel this way, please contact Kristin, or any postdoc or staff member. In addition, if you feel like you are not getting mentorship you need for a specific aspect of your project within the group, let us know and we can help you find someone to talk with, whether inside or outside the group.

* Big group meeting and subgroup meetings are designed to provide other avenues for feedback and to foster mentoring and collaboration at all levels of the Persson group.

# "Big" Group Meeting <a name="group"></a>

* Big group presentations are an opportunity for one group member (student, postdoc, or staff) to give a longer, seminar-style presentation and for other group members to see what colleagues they may not interact with frequently are working on. 

* All group members are expected to attend the big group meeting. **If you have a conflict, please do your best to let Kristin know in advance via email.**

* Big group meetings occur bi-weekly and Kristin always attends.

* The group meeting organizer will designate a group member to present at each meeting on a rotating [schedule](https://sites.google.com/a/lbl.gov/perssongroup/group-meeting). Given the size of our group, each person can expect to present at big group meeting about once per year.

* At the beginning or the end of each meeting, we will have 5-10 minutes for announcements and informal discussion. As long as working remotely is the norm, this should include a “self care moment”. This may also include 5-10 minutes on a DEI topic


---

# Subgroup Meetings <a name="sub"></a>

* The primary purpose of subgroups is to provide a forum for discussing best practices and problem-solving with your peers

* All discussion within and outside subgroups should adhere to the standards of conduct in the [Persson Group Agreements ](https://perssongroup.lbl.gov/agreements.html)

* Members are not expected to make formal presentations at subgroup meetings, but are expected to periodically share what they are working on (including what they may be stuck on or struggling with) and ask questions of their peers.

* Subgroup members that want to speak at a meeting are encouraged to contact their subgroup organizer about 3 days in advance of the meeting to claim time on the agenda.

* Subgroup organizers are encouraged to send email reminders containing a brief agenda or list of speakers 1-2 days in advance of the meeting. The subgroup organizer is also responsible for moderating the meeting to make sure everyone who asked to speak gets time to do so.

* Members are expected to make an effort to listen, ask questions, and provide feedback to their peers, even if their peers’ projects are not directly related to their work. Learning to communicate across gaps in one’s own knowledge is an important skill!

* **All group members are expected to regularly attend at least one research subgroup meeting every 2 weeks.** You may drop in and out of different subgroups on different weeks as you see fit, as long as you are meeting attendance criteria

 * In addition to research subgroups, there are also several optional subgroups that you are welcome and encouraged to attend. These do not count toward the attendance requirement, however.

* Subgroup meetings occur bi-weekly and will be posted on the [perssongroup calendar ](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=lbl.gov_brhr6pqcsslm15ui9i6rapnus8%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FLos_Angeles)

* Every subgroup will be attended by at least two postdocs or staff members

* Kristin’s attendance is not mandatory, but will be indicated ahead of time by calendar invite

* As long as working remotely is the norm, subgroup meetings should include ~15 min of unstructured social time at the start or end as a way of maintaining our sense of community and fighting isolation

* If subgroups get too large (regularly attended by more than ~8-10 people), they will be split into smaller subgroups

* Research subgroups are organized by theme according to different methods. As of November 2020, we have the following subgroups:

## Research Subgroups <a name="sgs"></a>
* **Periodic Bulk DFT** (i.e., VASP) -- Jianli Cheng
* **Periodic Slab DFT** (i.e., VASP surfaces) -- Ruoxi Yang
* **Molecular DFT** (i.e., Gaussian/QChem) -- Evan Spotte-Smith
* **MD and Electrolytes** -- Tingzheng Hou
* **Machine Learning** -- Mingjian Wen
* **Reaction networks** / SEI -- Sam Blau

## Non-Research Subgroups <a name="sgs"></a>

* **DEI Subgroup** -- TBD
    * Learn about and discuss topics related to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, especially as they relate to academia and science
* **Journal Club** -- Ryan Kingsbury
    * An additional place for us to connect and talk less formally about work-related stuff
    * The subgroup organizer will designate one member to lead the discussion in each meeting on a rotating basis. You can opt out if you want. You can also volunteer to be bumped forward on the schedule.
    * Leading a discussion means that you bring something to share with the group. It does not mean you have to prepare slides! You can bring a paper you found interesting, a talk you want to practice, a resource you want to share, or a topic for discussion (like publication ethics, time and project management strategies, teaching approaches, etc.)
* **Coding Subgroup** -- Patrick Huck
    * Discussion of pymatgen/atomate/custodian/etc. development (recent and anticipated PRs, new features, etc.)
    * Coding best practices, tips, and tricks
    * Examples given in subgroup may be developed into documentation
